hopes for a ceasefire in the Gaza War
are growing with the arrival of a Hamas
delegation for talks in Cairo us
officials say Israel has broadly
approved a deal being presented to Hamas
which is considered a terrorist group by
most Western countries pressure is
mounting for the meeting to result in a
truce as starvation Looms in Gaza and
according to the Hamas ran Health
Ministry more than 30,000 people have
been killed in the territory since the
war started started on Sunday the
Israeli Army intensified operations in
the southern Gaza City of Kan Yunis it
says it had destroyed dozens of Hamas
targets well for more on this latest
round of ceasefire talks taking place in
Egypt let's bring in journalist Karim
algari in Cairo welcome um Karim who
exactly is now taking part in these
talks and what's the latest you can tell
us
well uh we know that the delegation of
Hamas arrived here in Cairo for the
negotiations there is no Israeli uh
delegation yet quite some optimistic
sounds from Hamas one of the officials
said there might be a deal within 24 or
48 hours but there seems to be all kinds
of last minute conditions and uh some
minutes ago the CIS w't even that the
negotiations in Cairo might even break
down well as we mentioned um according
to the US Israel had already accepted
the truce conditions that were on the
table so what are the sticking
points well first they agreed to the
framework the framework is a six weeks
truce and then the release of several
dozen what 40 isra
hostages in exchange for the tenfold
number of Palestinians hold in Israeli
prisons but I think there's several
stumbling stumbling blocks we have to
deal with right now one of them is uh
that uh Israel presented a list of uh
prisoners they have they are not willing
to release that's the first stumbling
block the second is that Israel is uh
demanding a list from Hamas um who they
going to release exactly who is alive
who is dead and it seems like Hamas is
saying that they're going to provide
this list only uh when there is a
ceasefire so a lot of stumbling blocks
still to be moved out of the way there's
also been lots of talk about getting to
a breakthrough before the start of the
Muslim holy month of Ramadan which uh
begins on March 10th or 11th depending
on the lunar
calendar How likely is is a ceasefire
deal by
then well there's a big pressure on all
sides that this is happening of course
Ramadan is starting the end of next week
so um we have to see I mean as I said
optimistic sounds at the beginning from
the US uh also from Hamas that there is
a framework but the devil here uh seems
to be in the detail and uh until now
there is even no Israeli delegation that
arrived here because they're saying
their conditions have to be meet met
first that the Hamas provides the list
of the hostages to be relieved released
so there still a lot of work to do here
in
Cairo that was journalist Karim Al goari
in Cairo for us Karim many thanks indeed
for your
reporting you're
welcome